.\"                                      -*- nroff -*-
.\" deurlname.1 - Manual page for deurlname.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2004, 2005, 2007, 2008 Oskar Liljeblad
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU Library General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH DEURLNAME "1" "December 4, 2007" "deurlname (renameutils)"
.SH NAME
deurlname \- Remove URL-encoded characters from file names.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B deurlname
.RI [ OPTION ]... " " [ FILE ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page document describes the \fBdeurlname\fP command.

\fBdeurlname\fP will rename every file specified on the command line
that has URL-encoded characters in its name. The URL-encoded
characters will be translated into the corresponding byte values.
That is, %20 will become space, %41 A and so on.
.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Display every rename done.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <\fIoskar@osk.mine.nu\fP>.
.SH AUTHOR
The author of \fBrenameutils\fP and this manual page is Oskar Liljeblad <\fIoskar@osk.mine.nu\fP>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001, 2002, 2004, 2005, 2007, 2008 Oskar Liljeblad

This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
