.\"                                      -*- nroff -*-
.\" icmd.1 - Manual page for icmd, imv and icp.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2004, 2005, 2007, 2008 Oskar Liljeblad
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU Library General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH ICMD "1" "December 1, 2007" "icmd (renameutils)"
.SH NAME
imv, icp \- Rename or copy a file by editing the destination name using GNU readline.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imv
.RI [ OPTION ] " FILE"...

.B icp
.RI [ OPTION ] " FILE"...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page document describes the \fBicmd\fP, \fBimv\fP, and \fBicp\fP
commands.

\fBimv\fP is a program to interactively rename a single file.
It does this by allowing the file name to be edited inline
with GNU readline. This is very similar to using \fBmv\fP(1) and
editing the filename on the shell command-line, with one
exception - the filename does not have to be typed twice.

The \fBimv\fP program normally executes \fBmv\fP(1) to do the actual renaming.
This can however be changed with the \-\-command option.

\fBicp\fP is identical to \fBimv\fP except that a file is copied
with \fBcp\fP(1) instead. Both these commands are symbolic
links to the \fBicmd\fP command.

.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').

All options except those listed below are passed to either \fBmv\fP,
\fBcp\fP or the command specified by \-\-command.
.TP
\fB\-\-command\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Specify command to run instead of the default `mv' or `cp'.
You do not need to specify the directory name of FILE if FILE
is found in the current path (as set by the $PATH environment
variable).

It is assumed that the command specified accepts the same set
of long and short options that require an argument as mv or cp.
If not, you should specify those options with \-\-arg\-options
(see below). Also note that \-\-arg-options is not needed as
long as you specify option and option value in a single word,
like `\-\-suffix=bak' instead of `\-\-suffix bak' when passing extra
options to mv via imv.

.TP
\fB\-\-arg\-options\fR=\fIOPTION\fR[,\fIOPTION\fR...]
Specify what comma-separated options for mv, cp, or the command specified with
\-\-command require an argument. Options may be short
(e.g. \-S) as well as long (e.g. \-\-suffix).
The default list for mv is `t,S,reply,suffix,target-directory',
and the list for cp is
`t,S,Z,no-preserve,sparse,suffix,context,target-directory'.
(These lists are complete and correct for GNU Coreutils 5.97.)

This list is necessary because icmd needs to know what arguments
specified on the command line are files to move/copy, or option
values (following an option).
.TP
\fB\-\-pass-through\fR
Run mv/cp (or the command specified with
\-\-command) if two or more arguments are specified. This way imv/icp
can be used as an alias for mv/cp (see below).
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show summary of options.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Output version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Using imv as a Bash alias for mv:
.br
	\fBalias mv=imv \-\-pass-through \-i\fR
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <\fIoskar@osk.mine.nu\fP>.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmv\fP(1), \fBcp\fP(1)
.SH AUTHOR
The author of \fBrenameutils\fP and this manual page is Oskar Liljeblad <\fIoskar@osk.mine.nu\fP>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001, 2002, 2004, 2005, 2007, 2008 Oskar Liljeblad

This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
